Issue 191
Should education devote itself to enriching our personal lives?

Answer:

There is no doubt about one getting disheartened on seeing a girl child murdered by her parents just after her birth . Is it humane to act such act ? Similarly there are innumerable examples where people have shown such immaturity like "Sati" system in India or killing people on the name of relegion and so forth ,all these instances give us an insight of a person's intellectual knowledge.
What counts to this intellectual knowledge ? Its education , that inculcate not just acedemic formulas or text knowledge but ethics and moral responsibilities ,top of that the very sense of right and wrong .
Education is designed for improving a person's personality in all respect, without improving personal lives and our behaviour , education is a mere storing facts and figures in the core of our skull . Education is an ancient process that has evolved with humankind or to say human has evolved because of education . 
	Reverting back to human history , early man educated themselves on burning fire for survival , dressing up clothes , improving their skills to feed their stomach and finally building civilization . The whole process of evolution of civilization has been contributed by education . So no matter what, the very purpose of education has made it possible to enrich us with the civic values and behaviour that we posses today.
Therefore it will not be wrong to say that Education should devote itself to enrich our personal lives . From past to present we see that education has changed lives of people in all respect , people now are aware of their rights , consience and know what is right and wrong . Nelson Mendela , a personality who brought revolution in South Africa , the revolution was a stimulus of a pervasive thought that discriminating a person in terms of race is against human morals . This is a very basic principal of education . By introducing this principal , Nelson changed the face of Africa. He protested in jail and got a Nobel prize . Its was a small instance where education turned the table and brought prosperity in people's lives . 
	Similarly in daily lives , more the people will enrich themselves with education and apply its concepts ,more peace and prosperous the green planet will become . If we ponder on the most of the revolutions that took place in the past , Mahatama Gandhi's "Non Voilence" led to the independence of India from British in 1940's, French revolution a period of social and political upheaval for both french and europe , and many more were the result of insight and awareness about their rights and freedom. Education teaches us all this ,right from self respect to respect for others is a part of education . 
	Moreover , not only moral values , education comes up with logical knowledge about the world,ultimately helps us to survive in this competative world . Its anyway better to apply the learned  concepts in the daily personal lives . Concepts of physics ,economy ,computers ,chemistry , biology and so forth always comes handy when dealing with our lives mundane acts . Whether its a planing for family economy or purchasing a new mobile phone or it may be mere cooking , educational concepts always comes in picture when we act in our daily life. Its a great help to be aware of all the latest technology and fields of study in order to perform better in today's life.
Summerizing , the very purpose of education system is to bring the best out of a person . This can happen only when educational system will concentrate not only to the acedemics but also to the practical world as it is made for that only .